Project description
Introduction
Basics concept: Ask a question you’re curious about and answer it with a dataset of your choice. This is your project in a nutshell.
Please read carefully.
Project overview: 
The project for this class will consist of analysis on a dataset of your teams’ choosing. The dataset may already exist, or you may collect your own data using a survey or by conducting an experiment (consider your time wisely if you choose to do the latter option, extensions for lack of data collected will not be offered). You can choose the data based on your teams’ interests or based on work in other courses or research projects. The goal of this project is for you to demonstrate proficiency in the techniques we have covered in this class and apply them to a novel dataset in a meaningful way.
The goal for this project is not to do an exhaustive data analysis i.e., do not calculate every statistic and procedure you have learned for every variable in the set, but rather to demonstrate that you are proficient at asking meaningful questions and answering them with results of data analysis, that you are proficient in using Python, and that you are proficient at interpreting and presenting the results because of your understanding of the underlying processes necessary to convey accurate information. Focus throughout the project should be on conducting the correct steps and using accurate methods necessary to answer your research questions. You do not have to apply every statistical procedure we learned, but I do want an account of your process, which should be apparent in the final presentation and write-up. 
*Also, critique your own methods and provide suggestions for improving your analysis. Issues pertaining to the reliability and validity of your data, and appropriateness of the statistical analysis should be discussed in this project.
The project is very open ended. The only expectations for successful presentations and final reports are a demonstration of knowledge in data cleaning, appropriate model selection to answer the research question, and coherent presentation of the results. 
You should create some kind of compelling visualization(s) of this data in Python. There is no limit on how you use the tools or packages available to you, though it is required that the packages learned during the course are used. 


Presentation Recommendations:
During the presentation, you do not need to demonstrate all the visualization steps. A single high-quality visualization will receive a much higher grade than a large number of poor-quality visualizations. 
Also pay attention to your presentation. Neatness, coherency, and clarity will count. All analyses must be done in VSCode (or other IDE), using Python, and all components of the project must be reproducible (with the exception of the presentation).
You will work on the project with your lab team members.
The four milestones for the final project are
1.	Milestone 1 - Working collaboratively
2.	Milestone 2 - Proposals, with three dataset ideas
3.	Milestone 3 - Peer review, on another team’s project
4.	Milestone 4 - Presentation with slides and a reproducible project writeup of your analysis, with a draft along the way.
You will not be submitting anything on Gradescope for the project. Submission of these deliverables will happen on GitHub and feedback will be provided as GitHub issues that you need to engage with and close. 
Milestone 1 - Working collaboratively 
Due 10/03/2024
For the first milestone of your project, you’ll practice a collaborative Git workflow with your team members. Instructions are outlined in Milestone 1: Working Collaboratively. Each team member taking part in the collaborative working activity will get 5 points towards their project.
Milestone 2 – PMP and Project Proposal
Due 11/05/2024
There are two main purposes of the project proposal:
1.	To help the team strategize the project early using a Project Management Plan. Strategizing includes identifying the dataset, establishing a research question, and designating project work tasks among the team members. An additional part of strategizing is creating a collection of relevant literature (to support research question) and to support the theoretical foundations of your methodological approach (i.e., setting precedence for why a specific research question is best answered using a logistic regression). The requirement for the literature is at least 2 sources. The sources must be relevant to your research question and your chosen method/model approach. 

2.	Initial evaluation process. Completing a full proposal means you have completed the strategizing task, and you have established the strategy will indeed be successful.  To ensure that the data you wish to analyze, methods you plan to use, and the scope of your analysis are feasible and will allow you to be successful for this project.
Instructions and grading criteria for this milestone are outlined in Milestone 2: Proposal.
Milestone 3 - Peer review
Due 11/19
Critically reviewing others’ work is a crucial part of the scientific process, and INFO 511 is no exception. You will be assigned two teams to review. This feedback is intended to help you create a high-quality final project, as well as give you experience reading and constructively critiquing the work of others.
Instructions and grading criteria for this milestone are outlined in Milestone 3: Peer review.
Milestone 4 - Report and Presentation
Due 12/10
Instructions and grading criteria for this milestone are outlined in Milestone 4: Writeup + presentation.
Other
Reproducibility + organization
All written work (with exception of presentation slides) should be reproducible, and the GitHub repo should be neatly organized.
Points for reproducibility + organization will be based on the reproducibility of the write-up and the organization of the project GitHub repo. The repo should be neatly organized as described above, there should be no extraneous files, all text in the README should be easily readable.
Teamwork
You will be asked to fill out a survey where you rate the contribution and teamwork of each team member by assigning a contribution percentage for each team member. Filling out the survey is a prerequisite for getting credit on the team member evaluation. If you are suggesting that an individual did less than half the expected contribution given your team size (e.g., for a team of four students, if a student contributed less than 12.5% of the total effort), please provide some explanation. If any individual gets an average peer score indicating that this was the case, their grade will be assessed accordingly, and penalties may apply beyond the teamwork component of the grade.
If you have concerns with the teamwork and/or contribution from any team members, please email me by the project presentation deadline. You only need to email me if you have concerns. Otherwise, I will assume everyone on the team equally contributed and will receive full credit for the teamwork portion of the grade.
Grading
The grade breakdown is as follows:
Total	200 pts
M1: Working collaboratively	10 pts
M2: Project proposal	50 pts
M3: Peer review	30 pts
M4: Write-up	45 pts
M4: Slides + presentation	45 pts
Reproducibility + organization	5 pts
Teamwork	15 pts
Grading summary
Grading of the project will take into account the following:
•	Content - What is the quality of research and/or policy question and relevancy of data to those questions?
•	Correctness - Are statistical procedures carried out and explained correctly?
•	Writing and Presentation - What is the quality of the statistical presentation, writing, and explanations?
•	Creativity and Critical Thought - Is the project carefully thought out? Are the limitations carefully considered? Does it appear that time and effort went into the planning and implementation of the project?
A general breakdown of scoring is as follows:
•	90%-100%: Outstanding effort. Student understands how to apply all statistical concepts, can put the results into a cogent argument, can identify weaknesses in the argument, and can clearly communicate the results to others.
•	80%-89%: Good effort. Student understands most of the concepts, puts together an adequate argument, identifies some weaknesses of their argument, and communicates most results clearly to others.
•	70%-79%: Passing effort. Student has misunderstanding of concepts in several areas, has some trouble putting results together in a cogent argument, and communication of results is sometimes unclear.
•	60%-69%: Struggling effort. Student is making some effort but has misunderstanding of many concepts and is unable to put together a cogent argument. Communication of results is unclear.
•	Below 60%: Student is not making a sufficient effort.
Late work policy
There is no late work accepted on this project. Be sure to turn in your work early to avoid any technological mishaps.

